You know,
as a senior analyst,
I see hundreds of business plans.
They all cross my desk every single year.
And let me tell you,
everyone is passionate.
Everyone thinks they've got the next big thing,
but here's the hard truth,
most new ideas,
they're just destined to fail.
I mean,
check this out,
studies show a staggering 80% of new products fail in their very first year.
That's just a brutal reality,
right?
So,
my job isn't really about finding the good ideas,
it's about filtering out all the bad ones,
ruthlessly,
before they drain valuable time and resources.
So how do the successful companies do it?
How do they separate the winners from the,
well,
the disasters waiting to happen?
The answer is a really solid screening process.
Think of it like a gatekeeper,
with a series of checkpoints that only the most promising ideas get through.
It's not magic,
it's a method.
So,
OK,
let's pull back the curtain
and I'll show you exactly how it's done.
All right,
so before we even think about committing serious resources,
every single idea has to go through a high-level triage.
We use this simple but honestly incredibly powerful tool.
It's called the Real Win Worth It screen,
and it is the absolute first line of defense against,
well,
against wishful thinking.
First,
Is the market real?
And we have to be brutally honest here.
Is there a genuine need for this?
We're not just talking about market size,
so that's important.
We're talking about the intensity of the customer's need.
Are you solving a mild inconvenience or a massive hair on fire pain point?
You know,
an app for left-handed musicians might sound cool,
but if that market is just too tiny,
it's not real enough to justify a big investment.
OK,
next question.
Can we actually win?
Look,
it's not enough to have a great product in a big market.
You have to look in the mirror and ask,
do we have what it takes?
Do we have the tech,
the team,
the brand to actually dominate?
This is where we really dig into the competitive landscape.
Is it a total bloodbath out there or is there actually room for us to play?
Are there big barriers to entry that will protect us,
or could a dozen new competitors just pop up overnight?
And finally,
the big one,
is the venture worth it?
We're talking bottom line here.
Is this thing actually gonna be profitable
and at a risk level we can stomach?
But just as important is the strategic question,
does this even make sense for our business?
I mean,
a project could be profitable on paper,
but if it drags us away from our core mission,
or just ends up cannibalizing our other products,
you know,
stealing sales from our bestsellers without actually growing the pie,
then it's just not worth it.
Simple as that.
So if an idea makes it through that first real win worth it screen,
congratulations,
but that's when the real work begins.
Now it's time for a much,
much deeper analysis.
I like to break this down into 3 fundamental pillars.
This is where we go from a quick reality check to a full blown investigation.
So what are these pillars?
Well,
first,
there are the market factors.
Here we get really rigorous,
assessing the entire industry structure.
We're looking at things like the bargaining power of your customers and suppliers,
and crucially,
the threat of substitute products that could
just make your great idea obsolete overnight.
Second,
we have product and technical factors.
The big question here is,
can we actually build this thing to a high standard and more importantly,
can we scale it?
And third,
the financial factors,
you know,
the brass tacks.
What's the potential return on investment?
The thing is,
each one of these pillars has to be solid,
or the whole idea just falls apart.
Now,
here's a crucial layer to all this,
context.
We don't just weigh these pillars the same way for every single idea.
Nope.
How much weight we give them depends entirely on
where the industry is in its life cycle.
Think about it.
In a high-risk pioneering stage,
you've got new tech,
tons of competition,
the threat of new companies jumping in is massive.
So we're laser focused on,
can we build it and can we build a moat around it.
But if you're in a stable maturity stage,
the game totally changes.
It's all about intense rivalry,
defending your market share,
and making your costs as low as possible.
Your strategy absolutely has to fit the stage you're in.
OK,
so we've got this deep dive framework,
but how do we make it efficient?
We can't spend 6 months on every idea.
Well,
we apply a two-tier filter.
This is all about separating the absolute non-negotiables,
the must-haves,
from the nice to haves.
This is really how we avoid wasting a ton of
time analyzing an idea that's already dead on arrival.
So,
the must-haves,
these are your knockout questions.
Think of them like hard gates.
Does the idea fit our core strategy?
Is it,
you know,
legal?
Can we actually build it with today's technology?
If you get a no on any one of these,
that's it.
Project is dead,
it's over.
Only the ideas that get a yes on every single one
of these gates get to move on to the next round,
where we score them against the wood likes.
And that brings us to the quantitative climax,
if you will.
This is where we actually assign a score to the ideas that survived,
to figure out their final ranking.
We're moving away from the gut checks and into a much more objective,
data-driven comparison.
So here's how that scoring actually works in practice.
We use what's called a weighted model.
First,
we assign a weight to each of our wood-like criteria,
based on how important it is to our strategy.
So,
for example,
market size and competitive edge might be really important,
so they get a heavy weight of 5.
Then we score the idea,
say from 1 to 10,
on how well it performs on each of those things.
You just multiply the weight by the score,
add it all up,
and boom,
you've got an initial project score.
In this case,
it's 125.
But wait a minute,
that initial score,
that's just the tip of the iceberg.
It's only telling you about the opportunity,
the shiny upside.
What it completely ignores are all the threats
and risks lurking just below the surface.
And let me tell you,
a project with a high score and massive risk is a trap you do not want to fall into.
So,
to get a truly realistic picture,
we have to identify and then
quantify the major risk factors as negative points.
Is the technology totally unproven?
OK,
that's -15 points.
Is there a high chance your competitors are going
to start a price war the second you launch?
That could be a -20.
We subtract all of these from that initial score to
get a final and frankly more sober risk-adjusted score.
That's the number that really matters.
But even with a fantastic risk-adjusted score,
we're still not quite done.
There is one last,
absolutely vital question that an analyst has to
ask before they give the final green light,
and honestly,
this is the step that separates the good analysts from the truly great ones.
And it's all about this,
strategic alignment.
It's about looking past the numbers on the spreadsheet and really
seeing how this new venture fits into the company's bigger picture.
A project can have an amazing score,
but if it doesn't actually enhance our brand,
or use our core skills or line up with our long-term mission,
it might just be a very,
very profitable distraction.
And that right there is the final takeaway.
A project can't just be profitable today,
it has to be relevant for where the company,
the market,
and yeah,
the whole world is headed tomorrow.
So,
the ultimate question isn't just can this idea win,
it's will this idea help us keep winning for years to come.
And that's the kind of thinking that turns a
pretty good idea into a massive lasting success.